.TH SLACKSCAN 8 2024-05-18
.SH NAME
slackscan \- Slackware Package Repository difference scanner
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B slackscan
[ \fB-NBFIPq\fR ] [ \fB\-p \fIPROFILE\fR ]
[ \fB\-i \fIFILENAME\fR ] [ \fB\-u \fIFILENAME\fR ] [ \fB\-r \fIFILENAME\fR ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B slackscan
will scan the locations specified in its configuration profile for
available Slackware package files. filter and blacklists are then
applied and any package files that have not been excluded are compared
to the packages installed on the host system. It will then write a
list of packages or package files to the \fIFILENAME\fR(s) specified with
the \fB\-i\fR, \fB\-u\fR, and \fB\-r\fR options. These output files
many then be passed to other utility programs for action.
.PP
.TP
.I PROFILE
name of the slackscan configuration profile to be used.
.TP
.I FILENAME
output filename. '\fB\-\fR' can be used to specify \fBstdout\fR.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-p " PROFILE"
use the config file contained in the specified \fBslackscan\fR(8) \fIPROFILE\fR.
.TP
.BI \-i " FILENAME"
specify output \fIFILENAME\fR to hold the list of package files that need to be installed.
.TP
.BI \-u " FILENAME"
specify output \fIFILENAME\fR to hold the list of package files that need to be updated.
.TP
.BI \-r " FILENAME"
specify output \fIFILENAME\fR to hold the list of packages that need to be removed.
.TP
.B \-N
do not gpg verify any \fBCHECKSUMS.md5\fR files specified as package
source locations.
.TP
.B \-B
ignore any blacklist file that is part of the configuration profile.
.TP
.B \-F
ignore any filter file that is part of the configuration profile.
.TP
.B \-I
ignore the contents of the package database directory.
All available packages not blacklisted or filtered will be treated
as new.
.TP
.B \-P
ignore any protect file that is part of the configuration profile.
.TP
.B \-h
show usage text.
.TP
.B \-q
quiet: do not print statistics to stdout on exit.
.SH EXIT VALUES:
.TP
0
successful run, changes were found.
.TP
2
successful run, no changes were found.
.TP
8
gpg verify failed on md5sums file.
.TP
16
a critical failure occurred.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B SLACKSCAN_PROFILE
may be set to override the default profile name. A profile name
specified with the \fB\-p\fR option on the command line will have
precedence over this environment variable. When unset, the default
is: '\fIdefault\fR'.
.TP
.B ROOT
specifies an alternative root directory, as used in the pkgtools:
.BR installpkg (8), 
.BR upgradepkg (8), 
.BR removepkg (8).
.B slackscan
will apply this prefix when locating the pkgtools package database
directory that it will use to identify installed packages.
.SH FILES
.B slackscan
is configured through the use of configuration 'profiles'. Each
profile comprises of a set of files stored in a common profile
directory located at: \fB/etc/slackscan/\fIPROFILE\fB/\fR, where
\fIPROFILE\fR is the name of the profile.
.PP
Within each profile directory there will be one to four files,
of which only the 'scan' file is mandatory:
.TP
.BI /etc/slackscan/ PROFILE /scan
contains a list of package locations, one per line, which are to
be scanned for packages. A package location may be one of:
.RS
.IP
The absolute path of a directory on the filesystem.
.IP
The absolute path of a \fBCHECKSUMS.md5\fR in a directory on the
filesystem.
.IP
The URL of a \fBCHECKSUMS.md5\fR file on a remote http(s) web-server.
.RE
.TP
.BI /etc/slackscan/ PROFILE /filter
A set of \fBregex\fR(7) that will be applied to the list of available
package files. Only matching package files will be included in the
comparision to the installed system.
.TP
.BI /etc/slackscan/ PROFILE /blacklist
A set of \fBregex\fR(7) that will be applied to the list of available
package files. Matching package files will be excluded from the
comparision to the installed system..
.TP
.BI /etc/slackscan/ PROFILE /protect
A set of \fBregex\fR(7) to be applied to the list of packages that
have been identified for removal owing to their package file nolonger
being avaiable. Matching packages will be excluded from the output.
.PP
By default the patterns in the filter, blacklist and protect files
will be interpreted as \fBbasic-regex\fR.  To have \fBslackscan\fR
interpret them as \fBextended-regex\fR include a comment line as
follows:
.RS
\fB
.nf
# Format: extended-regex
.fi
\fR
..RE
.SH NOTES
Duplicate package files found while scanning package locations are
handled in one of two ways, depending on whether the duplicate is found
within the same package location, or across separate package locations.
.PP
When a duplicated package name is encountered across two separate package
source locations then the first to be encountered will be used for any
comparisions.
.PP
Within a single package source location the file with the highest version
number will be compared.
.PP
When two versions of the same package are already installed, slackscan
will compare available packages to the highest version installed, ignoring
any lower numbered versions of the package. Note however that
.BR upgradepkg (8)
will remove all older versions of a package when upgrading them, so it is
probably best to add \fIblacklist\fR and \fIprotect\fR file entries for
any such packages and control them manually with
.BR installpkg (8)
and
.BR removepkg (8)\fR.

.SH EXAMPLES
A basic invocation using the default profile might look like this:
.RS
.nf
.B slackscan -i install.list -u update.list -r remove.list
.fi
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR slackup (8)
.BR installpkg (8)
.BR removepkg (8)
.BR upgradepkg (8)
