.TH SLACKUP 8 2025-10-23 "slackscan 3.10"
.SH NAME
slackup \- Slackware package update assistant
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B slackup
[ \fIOPTIONS\fR ] [ \fB\-l\fR | \fB\-x\fR ] [ \fB\-p \fIPROFILE\fR ]
[ \fIPATTERN\fR ...]
.TP
.I PROFILE
configuration profile to be used.
.TP
.I PATTERN
\fBregex\fR(7) pattern. Limit output to matching files or packagess.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B slackup
will invoke
.BR slackscan (8)
in order to determine which packages on a Slackware system need to
be installed, updated or removed, and generate either: a
list of packages requiring action; or a stream of POSIX shell commands
that, when executed, would bring the installed system inline with the
list of packages identified by
.BR slackscan (8).
.PP
unless invoked with the \fB\-x\fR option,
.B slackup
will only writes to \fBstdout\fR, and makes no changes itself.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-l
list package/pkgfile names only. Do not generate shell-commands.
.TP
.B \-x
execute generated shell-commands automatically. Downloaded files
will be stored in \fBSLACKUP_CACHE_DIR\fR or its default location:
\fI/var/cache/packages\fR.
.TP
.B \-i
include invocation of post-install scripts.
.TP
.B \-s
include gpg signature verification of package files.
.TP
.B \-c
add comment lines to the output to be more readable.
.TP
.B \-h
show usage text.
.TP
.B \-E
interpret PATTERN as extended-regex. The default is to interpret them
as basic-regex.  This option applies only to patterns specified on the
command-line.
.TP
.B \-N
do not gpg verify any CHECKSUMS.md5 files used. This is potentially
insecure.
.TP
.B \-I
ignore new packages.
.TP
.B \-U
ignore updated packages.
.TP
.B \-R
ignore removed packages.
.TP
.B \-B
ignore the 'blacklist' file.
.TP
.B \-F
ignore the 'filter' file.
.TP
.B \-P
ignore the 'protect' file.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B SLACKSCAN_PROFILE
may be set to override the default profile name. A profile name
specified with the \fB\-p\fR option on the command line will have
precedence over this environment variable. When unset, the default
is: '\fIdefault\fR'.
.TP
.B SLACKUP_CACHE_DIR
may be set to override the default location in which downloaded
packages are stored when \fBslackup\fR is used with the \fB\-x\fR
option. When unset, the default is: \fI/var/cache/packages\fR.
.SH FILES
.TP
.BR /etc/slackup/post-install/
A directory containing post-install scripts to be run after a package
is installed or upgraded. To supply a post-install script, install it
into this directory with the name of the package to which it
applies.
.SH EXAMPLES
When the output of slackup is passed to a shell for execution, either
through a pipeline or a file, any remote package files will be
downloaded to the current directory. For this reason it's a good idea
to make a dedicated directory and use that when invoking slackup in
this manner, e.g.
.PP
.RS
\fB
.nf
mkdir my_updates
cd my_updates
slackup -si > updates.sh
sh ./updates.sh
.fi
\fR
.RE
.PP
It would also be prudent to review the contents of \fIupdates.sh\fR
prior to running it.
.PP
As this is a little awkward, the \fB\-x\fR option can be used to
automatically execute the generated commands. When \fB\-x\fR is used,
any downloaded files will be put in the directory specified by the
\fBSLACKUP_CACHE_DIR\fR environment variable, or its default location:
\fI/var/cache/packages\fR, but see \fBNOTES\fR below.
.SH NOTES
.PP
Since using '\fB\-x\fR' doesn't give the user the chance to review
what changes are about to be applied, running \fBslackup\fR without
the \fB\-x\fR option prior to running it with \fB\-x\fR is a wise
precaution. However, even then, there is still a window of exposure
between the running of the two commands where changes to the list of
available packages might occur. Using \fB\-x\fR is not recommended if
this possibility is a concern.
.PP
When \fB\-x\fR is used the contents of the directory specified in
\fBSLACKUP_CACHE_DIR\fR are not removed, neither before or after the
generated commands are executed. The user may want to clear this
periodically to reclaim diskspace.
.PP
.B Post-install scripts:
.RS
When invoked with the \fB\-i\fR option, \fBslackup\fR will look in the
post-install directory for an executable/shell-script with the same
name as the package. If found, an invocation of that executable will
be included. \fBslackup\fR passes a single argument to the executable
which will be the full pathname of the package-file that has just been
installed or upgraded.
.PP
For example: if one wanted a
.BR mkinitrd (8)
command to be executed after installing or upgrading the
\fIkernel-modules\fR package then it can be placed in a script named:
\fI/etc/slackup/post-install/kernel-modules\fR
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR slackscan (8)
